# Database Schema Design for Authorisation Portal

### Credential Table
In this table the information about user's credentials will be stored.

```
CREDENTIAL
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|  UserID  |  UserName   |  Email  |   AccessLevel  |  PasswordHash  |  Salt   |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

**NOTES**:
 + Original password is never stored instead a hash `PasswordHash` and `Salt` is stored. So it is practically impossible to unhash the original password.
 + `UserName` is the unique username of every user.
 + `UserID` is automatically ID generated by the Portal for a particular user (We are using Java's UUID).
 + `Email` is the email id of the user.
 + `AccessLevel` is the access level of the user. It is the value which represents how much access the user has over database and services. It is a integer ranging from 0-10 (0 means most priority and 10 means lowest priority)

### Client Table
**NOTE**: Here client refers to another application or service (e.g. Feedback, etc.)
This table stores the information about various services and **registered** applications.

This table is important as some students may want to develop application based on this API. For example a student develops a notification app which notifies about the happenings in the college to other students. So the developer has to register his/her application to Authorisation Portal.

After registering he will get a `ClientID` and `ClientSecret` which he can use to access other APIs.

```
CLIENT
+---------------------------------------------------------------+
|  ClientID  |  ClientSecret  |  Scope  |  URL  |  CallbackURL  |
+---------------------------------------------------------------+
```

**NOTES**
+ `Client_ID` and `ClientSecret` are unique entities which a developer of the application will get on registering his/her application on the Authorization portal.
+ `Scope` let you specify exactly what type of access you need. Clients could not grant any additional permission beyond that which the user already has.
+ `URL` is the URL of the application.
+ `CallbackURL` is the URL where the authorization service will redirect after authorization is complete.

### ClientInfo Table
**NOTE**: This table will contain information about the client.
```
CLIENTINFO
+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|  ClientID  | ClientName  | Access  |  AuthorName  |  AuthorEmail  |  AuthorContact  |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

**NOTES**
+ `ClientID` is the unique identity provided to each client.
+ `ClientName` is the name of the client service.
+ `Access` field specifies the access-level provided to the client.
+ `AuthorName` is the name of the author or the developer of the client service.
+ `AuthorEmail` is the emailID of the author of the client service.
+ `AuthorContact` is the contact number(mobile number) of the author of client service.

### Authorizations table
**NOTE**: This table is a mapping between UserID and ClientID. It specifies the level of access which a user has given to a certain client.
```
AUTHORIZATIONS
+--------------------------------------------------------+
|  UserID  |  ClientID  |  AccessToken  |  AllowedScope  |
+--------------------------------------------------------+
```
**NOTES**
+ `UserID` is the unique identity of each user.
+ `ClientID` is the unique identity of each client service.
+ `AccessToken` is a token which develoer can use to access user information.
+ `AllowedScope` is the granted scopes to the client.

### Temporary Table
```
TEMPORARY
+--------------------------------------------------------------+
|  UserID  |  ClientID  |  AccessToken  |  Code  |  TimeStamp  |
+--------------------------------------------------------------+
```
  **NOTES**
  + `UserID` and `ClientID` uniquely defines a userID and ClientID respectively.
  + `AccessToken` is a token a developer can use to access user information on behalf of user.
  + `Code` is a temporary string involved in two-tier registration of the client service. This string is sent to the callback url after user has accepted the request of client.
  + `TimeStamp` stores the time at which the temporary Code is sent to the client and it is helpful as the temporary code is valid only for a short time period.
